README.md, before:

# aasvg

Convert ASCII art diagrams into SVG.

This is inspired by [goat](https://github.com/blampe/goat) but rather than a
reimplementation, this code uses the original
[markdeep](https://casual-effects.com/markdeep/) code.

## Usage

Install with `npm install -g aasvg`.

Feed `aasvg` an image and it will write an SVG.  For example:

```
$ aasvg < example.txt > example.svg
```

<!-- generate this with the ~~backdrop option to avoid it looking terrible
     when shown on GitHub in dark mode -->
![example](./example.svg)

## Character Placement

By default, this does not place text characters on a grid one-by-one as the
original markdeep code did.

The `--spaces` command-line argument controls how text is combined.  Use either
`--spaces=0` or `--stretch` to provide precise text placement.

`--spaces=0`
ensures that every character is placed separately; which is precise and avoids
text distortion, but makes for a larger SVG that is harder to search.

`--stretch` can be used with `--spaces` set to any value.  `--stretch` stretches
text to fit, which is less widely implemented in viewers (generally you don't
have to worry about this unless you are using an [insane
profile](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7996)) and might distort the
text a tiny bit because the metrics for the font used (the generic "monospace")
cannot be exactly controlled.

## Dark Backgrounds

This tool draws black lines and text on a transparent background.  In certain settings (such as GitHub when
a dark mode is enabled), this produces unfortunate results.  If you inline the
resulting SVG, you can perform [tricks with
CSS](https://github.com/martinthomson/i-d-template/blob/3c960b652a0708a291c01f186511fd0b39eeb8b4/v3.css#L982-L993),
but if you are using `<img>`, that isn't possible.  Use the `--backdrop`
switch to generate a mostly-white backdrop for the image.

Commit message:

The spaces=0 setting makes SVG that is less accessible
to screen readers, which are used by people who are visually impaired

README.md, after:

# aasvg

Convert ASCII art diagrams into SVG.

This is inspired by [goat](https://github.com/blampe/goat) but rather than a
reimplementation, this code uses the original
[markdeep](https://casual-effects.com/markdeep/) code.

## Usage

Install with `npm install -g aasvg`.

Feed `aasvg` an image and it will write an SVG.  For example:

```
$ aasvg < example.txt > example.svg
```

<!-- generate this with the ~~backdrop option to avoid it looking terrible
     when shown on GitHub in dark mode -->
![example](./example.svg)

## Character Placement

By default, this does not place text characters on a grid one-by-one as the
original markdeep code did.

The `--spaces` command-line argument controls how text is combined.  Use either
`--spaces=0` or `--stretch` to provide precise text placement.

`--spaces=0`
ensures that every character is placed separately; which is precise and avoids
text distortion, but makes for a larger SVG that is harder to search and
less accessible to screen readers.

`--stretch` can be used with `--spaces` set to any value.  `--stretch` stretches
text to fit, which is less widely implemented in viewers (generally you don't
have to worry about this unless you are using an [insane
profile](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7996)) and might distort the
text a tiny bit because the metrics for the font used (the generic "monospace")
cannot be exactly controlled.

## Dark Backgrounds

This tool draws black lines and text on a transparent background.  In certain settings (such as GitHub when
a dark mode is enabled), this produces unfortunate results.  If you inline the
resulting SVG, you can perform [tricks with
CSS](https://github.com/martinthomson/i-d-template/blob/3c960b652a0708a291c01f186511fd0b39eeb8b4/v3.css#L982-L993),
but if you are using `<img>`, that isn't possible.  Use the `--backdrop`
switch to generate a mostly-white backdrop for the image.
